---
layout: docs
title: Schleuder ★ Changes ★ v3.0
---

User-relevant changes in version 3.0 compared to version 2.2.
-------------------------------------------------------------

This document describes changes that users or list-admins of Schleuder should be aware of. For a more technical changelog, please see the [repository](https://0xacab.org/schleuder/schleuder).

* Keywords may be written in lower case letters, too.
* `X-LISTNAME`: Each use of an `X-`keyword must be accompanied by this new keyword (once per message).
* Changed `X-`keywords:
  * `X-LIST-MEMBERS` is now `X-LIST-SUBSCRIPTIONS`.
  * `X-ADD-MEMBER` is now `X-SUBSCRIBE`.
  * `X-DELETE-MEMBER` is now `X-UNSUBSCRIBE`.
* New keyword `X-RESEND-CC` (and `X-RESEND-CC-ENCRYPTED-ONLY`): resends the message to all given arguments in Cc, so the recipients see each others involvement. (The latter may be abbreviated as `x-resend-cc-enc`.)
* Dropped support for sending inline ciphertext ("pgp/inline"). Schleuder still supports to receive such messages, but doesn't send them anymore. The former member-attribute `mime`, and the list-attribute `default_mime` have been dropped accordingly.
* Keys for subscriptions (including admins) are looked up only using the subscription-attribute `fingerprint`. When resending to non-subscribers, keys are still looked up by the recipient's email-address.
* `send_encrypted_only` is only supported for lists, not anymore for individual subscriptions. (This might return in a later version if enough people complain.)
* Dropped the feature to archive messages on the server (list-attribute `archive`). Instead there's now the option to have all incoming messages forwarded as an attachment to the list-admins (list-attribute `forward_all_incoming_to_admins`). Most people won't need this ever, it's useful for researching problems.
* New subscription-attribute `delivery_enabled` to pause delivery of list-messages to a subscription. Useful for holidays, or for list-admins that don't want to receive the list's traffic.
* New list-attribute `language`, which defines in which language informational hints or error-messages are being sent. Currently supported are english and german.
* Threading for recipients of resend-messages has been fixed (if the list-attribute `keep_msgid` is true).


In case of questions or hints regarding these documents please [contact us](/docs/#feedback).
